So now that we went over how to use
the TensorFlow feature column API for numeric features,
let's use it for categorical features as well.
In this walk through,
I will go over the following steps for creating a categorical feature with
a pattern that is hopefully similar to what you have done before with other libraries.
First, I will create a vocab file with unique values for each field.
Next, I will use
the TensorFlow feature column API function that reads from vocabulary files.
I believe this pattern might be best for
those cases where you have large number of unique values,
and you can also decouple it and use
other tools for vocab file generation like SQL as well.
Lastly, I will use
the previous feature column function to create a one-hot encoded feature.
There are other options for creating other feature types,
but we will go over this for now.
For this walk through,
we start with encounter level of synthetic dataset that we created earlier.
Before we can use the dataset,
I select only the categorical feature that we will use,
the principle diagnosis code and a label field,
which I need to transform from an array format to a scalar value here.
So here we can see
this new transformed dataset where I transformed a label array to a scalar value.
Before we convert this dataset,
I want to know that this field has a high degree of cardinality.
You can see 6,752 unique values,
and this is why we will use this approach to read
vocab values from a vocab file instead of from in memory.
For the first block,
we just create a vocab directory.
Then I provided two functions to assist you
with creating vocabulary files in that directory.
You can see I use those in this block to create the actual vocab file.
Here is what the text file looks like.
Notice that the first row is for the outer vocabulary value placeholder.
The way the vocab is built out is to have a different unique value for each row,
and the index of each row is the key.
Now that you've seen how we built the vocab files,
we are ready to actually build the TensorFlow dataset from the Pandas DataFrame.
This should be a review from what we learned earlier on how to
convert a Pandas DataFrame to a TensorFlow dataset.
So I won't go into more detail about this.
Now we're ready to use the TensorFlow feature column,
categorical column from the vocab file function.
Here's the path for that vocab file we just created.
We can use that column with this TensorFlow feature column function here
that takes the vocab file and prepares it for being used as a categorical feature.
You can see you can put the key,
which is just the name of a field,
and that vocab file location,
as well as adding optional fields such as the number of vocabulary buckets.
Now we are ready to move to the last part where you can take
the vocabulary feature that we just
created and use that for the one-hot encoding feature.
The TensorFlow feature column API calls one-hot encoding an indicator column.
We can pass the vocab feature we just created to this.
Next, we can take a batch and use the demo function again to check the output.
As you can see, the output are vectors of 0, 1 arrays,
with the one being where the value is across a large number of unique values.
Hopefully, this was not too difficult and gives you the skills to handle building
other types of categorical features from vocab files that you create.